greetings everyone welcome to another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast
lászló Montgomery here bringing you the
second part of our Han Dynasty overview
we're still in the Western Han or former
Han period as it's also referred to we
left off in 180 BC with the new clan
disturbance where all the relatives of
Empress Lou were unceremoniously yanked
from all their various positions of
power and killed Empress Lu was the wife
of the Han Dynasty founder Leo bong who
later became the Han Emperor Gaozu since
it was the Leo clan that started the
dynasty the successive Emperor's all had
to be surname Leo not new the new clan
disturbance is the first of many such
disturbances to follow where the
deceased emperors Empress tries to usurp
the throne for her family so the country
suffers this trauma but they bounce back
and have quite a golden time and in
today's podcast we'll look at the Han oh
maybe all the way up to 8 AD to the end
of the Western Han then next time we'll
look at Wang Mong and the Xin dynasty
before we pick up the eastern or later
Han Dynasty so the new family took back
power from the new clan the third or
fourth Emperor depending a few counts
one of the puppet Emperor's who ruled
during the period of Empress Lu was
another son of God sue from one of his
concubines his name was Leo hyung he had
been in fief by his father as the Prince
of die the die state was located near
present-day tiger and in Shaanxi he had
been invited back to the capital to
become emperor
Leo hyung thereupon became Empress hon
Wendy this Emperor really used the
velvet glove hand he was extremely
popular with the common people and
seemed to have a genuine concern to
improve the lives of the people he
ordered amnesties scaled-back harsh laws
and carpel punishments he reduced taxes
in fact he went as far as to put a 12
year moratorium on agricultural taxes
and this of course ushered in an era of
prosperity for the farmers he even put
an end to the law that made it a capital
offense to criticize the emperor in any
a hon Wendy said quote with this law
nobody will dare to speak
how can an emperor hear any criticism if
he has made a mistake
this emperor sounds too good to be true
it gets even better hon Wendy was famous
for his frugality he wore coarse silk
garments over the more refined and
comfortable costumes that the Emperor
wore there was a story about some gift
horse that was presented from some
officials or other in the palace they
brought the Emperor this magnificent
horse that could travel a thousand Li a
day Ali was about a third of a mile the
emperor famously replied what do I need
a horse that can walk a thousand Li a
day when the most I ever travel is 30 Li
per day afterwards Han Wendy issued an
edict forbidding gifts to the royal
court you had a sort of welfare state
created under Wendy widows and widowers
orphans and seniors without children
were given government assistance in the
form of loans or tax breaks seniors who
had made it to the age of 80 were given
not monthly Social Security checks but
stipends of rice wine and meat and if
you were over 90 on top of this you were
given extra cloth and cotton I wanted to
mention a system that wasn't created by
Emperor Han Wendy but which did begin
under the Han Dynasty and was used
effectively under Wendy this was the
hood Shing system that essentially
called for imperial princesses to be
used as pawns and keeping peace with the
northern and western barbarians most
notably of course the perpetual thorn in
the side of the Chinese known as the
shownu this was a system of princesses
for peace the emperor would send one of
his daughters to these barbarian lands
as peace offerings between the Han
Emperor and the most powerful Xiong nu
chieftain of the time many famous
stories that we'll look at in another
podcast when we focus on particular
aspects of each dynasty the most famous
of these hood sheen princesses was the
princess Wang Chao Jun who wasn't only a
princess of the hood sheen system but
was also considered one of the four
beauties of China or Saddam a new
t-shirt
diao chan and yang GUI Fei
the other three I don't want to neglect
to mention Emperor weddings wife the
Empress doe she had one of these
fascinating lives and in fact outlived
her husband the Emperor and later became
an Empress Dowager Empress dough or
Dolan hole was known mostly for her
introduction of Taoism to the Han Court
she was a strict follower of the
philosophy of Lao Tzu she believed in Wu
Wei Archer or governing by doing nothing
now this isn't actually as bad as it
sounds this thinking said that the world
operated according to its own natural
laws and harmonies when man tried to go
against these harmonies he was doomed to
failure you had to go with the flow you
had to rule in an unsophisticated and
simple manner
none of these elaborate rituals and
painstakingly complex etiquette the
Daoists were always having it out with
the Confucian assess both schools of
thought flowered during the reign of the
success of Han Emperor's when Jing and
the Daoists were always arguing with the
Confucian AX stream Lee rigid in their
thought and especially with all the
rituals and presto had a great influence
on her son who succeeded Emperor one as
hongting deep the daodejing was the most
treasured text during this time Han
Wendy's brief twelve year reign of 180
to 168 BC brought a period of
much-needed stability to China it didn't
last long of course by 157 BC this fine
emperor died at the young age of 45 this
was of course after very strict
instructions about how his tomb had to
be made in a certain way that didn't
present too much hardship or cost to
build and he declared the people need
not have any disruption in their lives
during the period of mourning for the
Emperor Emperor Han Wendy's reign saw in
165 BC the introduction of the civil
service exams that many of you have
heard of this was the forerunner of the
annual process of Imperial civil service
exams that tested promising students
from around the country who if
successful would participate in the
public administration of the country the
class of scholar bureaucrats who were
integral to China all
the way up to the last dynasty had its
earliest roots in this period nowadays
it doesn't exist but the ghosts of these
civil service exams can still be seen in
the annual college entrance exams
Chinese students face to see who gets
into the best universities so hon Wendy
passes from the scene in 157 BC and he
is followed by his son who would become
Emperor Jing his mother was and praised
o Jing D ruled for 16 years until 141 BC
his reign is remembered among other
things for the rebellion of the seven
states in 157 BC right after he took
over power he faced this crisis to the
imperial throne now remember he was
heavily influenced by his Taoist mother
and ruled using this kind of upbringing
in the philosophy of lotsa like his
father Wendy he continued the policy of
distancing himself from the old Xin
legalist ways he continued to lower
taxes and reduce the severity of
punishments for various crimes he also
continued the practice of coaching which
kept peaceful relations with the Xiong
nu
so Jean DS reign was defined among other
events by the qi guoyuan or the
rebellion of the seven states this was a
rebellion against the central Han
authority by the seven states each led
by a prince of the Leo clan yes these
were the same Leos as Leo Poong who we
looked at in the last podcast when Leo
pon was busy consolidating his power and
trying to keep the peace he set his
family relatives up in these kingdoms
and replaced those who had by their acts
displayed a certain amount of disloyalty
to Leo bong who had reigned as the
Emperor called Hsu
so all these Leo's are set up as princes
out in the lands beyond the capital in
Chang nan everything's fine of course
while the ghalsuu Emperor is alive but
once he's gone the bonds of fealty get
more and more diluted until now and
these seven states decide at that moment
in 157 BC that now was the time to
reassert themselves and become
independent of the Han Emperor during
the time of Han Wendy they minted their
own coins collected
were given so much freedom that it's
really no wonder that these seven states
decided to just take this to the finish
line this rebellion only lasted a few
months in toto it all started with the
Jing Emperor hongting D and his trusted
number-one advisor ciaochao ciaochao had
put a bug in the Emperor's air that if
they didn't strike now against these
princes especially the Prince of the
rich rule states in jung-soo they would
rebel anyway so better to strike now
rather than wait to be struck to light
the fuse the Emperor instituted a series
of laws that essentially enforced all
kinds of restrictions and laws from the
past that the princes all these years
had ignored and weren't gonna follow now
this had the effect that was expected
and the wolf state rose up in six other
principalities also joined in the fray
it was one bloody battle after another
and in no time at all Emperor Jing got
cold feet and in order to appease the Wu
Prince he executed child wah and child's
entire family Chao had been looked upon
especially by EOP as the black hand
behind all these attempts to curtail
their power
Leo pea head convinced the frightened
Emperor Jing that all he had to do was
execute child saw and he call off the
rebellion so even after he did this the
rebellion continued and hongting D had
to come up with a plan B so he called
the reliable and loyal general Joe la
foo general Joe set out from Chung on in
a matter of time managed to bring an end
to the rebellion one by one the princes
capitulated and the last one to go was
the Prince of Jiao with its capital in
han dong three months is all it took
once this rebellion was over hongting d
took various measures to weaken these
vassal states and assert central control
over these once quasi independent states
and pretty much from here on out the
idea of a China is a unified state
rather than a collection of small
independent states begins to get a
little traction general Drogo fool later
in 150 BC became hunging DS Chancellor
and despite his good background he
proved to be a very unpopular figure at
court the drama going on behind
scenes at the court of pinching
emperor's something we might have to
come back to one day for a special
podcast there was an incredible amount
of jockeying for position among the
concubines to get their son named as
Jing Dee's ear it's as well-documented
as it is complicated and well worth
looking closely at another day
Joe Yahoo got entangled in this mess and
made some rather unpopular decisions he
disagreed with hunching Dee and a number
of sensitive matters and in time lost
favor with the Emperor you know if you
read so much ins account of all this he
just goes on and on and on and very
vivid detail about all the
back-and-forth and backstabbing and
colluding in his sure gee this was the
time in Chinese history that's so much
Yun actually lived so of course the
detail about this time and arguably the
reliability of everything he wrote and
the records of the grand historian
theoretically should be somewhat
accurate 147 BC Jonah foo commits
suicide after he gets hopelessly caught
up in accusations and wrong maneuvers
this reflected very badly on Emperor
Jing who was blamed for letting this get
out of hand and allowing such a good
person as Jonah foo to die
141 BC hunging Dee dies and is succeeded
by his son Leo cha who becomes Han rule
deep he had become heir at the age of
seven and became emperor in his 16th
year hang moody ruled for more than half
a century from 140 287 BC let's sort of
clean up some loose ends with Jing Dee
and then we'll get to the succession
hang mu D of course is considered one of
the greatest emperors after the
relatively peaceful and very prosperous
reigns of Wendy and Jing Dee the Han
reached the height of its power and
territorial expansion during the reign
of Han Liu Dee Confucianism reached new
peaks with his patronage he was a great
patron of the Arts and of learning but
his reign is mostly defined by endless
wars and we'll look at them in a minute
well this is some achance curtain call
the sure gr records of the grand
historian was started by seumas father
sumit on in 109 BC during
the reign of Hangul D you know hun kudi
he's really considered by many to be
China's most famous emperor China
practically doubled in size during his
reign the Silk Road which served as not
only a trade route between two of the
great empires of the day Rome and the
Han but also served as a byway in which
ideas innovations culture and legends
were passed back and forth between east
and west Han Moody lived in Magnificent
splendor and utterly rejected his
grandfather Wendy's asceticism in favor
of beautiful silks and sumptuous living
he had this thing for immortality like
t-shirt wine and was always keeping an
eye open for that elusive elixir of life
he established a sort of confucian
academy and proclaimed that all aspiring
scholars who wish to climb the Chinese
imperial version of the cursus and arm
would need to master the teachings found
in the Confucian classics from this
point forward
Confucianism provided the ideological
framework of the government and the
bureaucracy the easiest way up to the
top of course was an aristocratic
background but by the end of the Han
Dynasty and beginning with Han Wu d this
Confucian astray Vord government managed
by an army of Confucian trained scholar
officials was starting to take roots
samaa Chen was himself a great Confucian
scholar at the court and it was hangeul
Dee who requested his father to write
the 30 chapters that make up the assured
G so this moment where the fabric of the
imperial government and everything
connected to it from Han moody forward
is woven with Confucian yarns so to
speak the Great Sage really becomes the
Great Sage and memorizing everything he
wrote and being able to regurgitate it
at these periodic exams was really the
only way to get a shot at becoming a
government official and in those days
they used to say tol Guan fotz hai which
basically meant the road to riches was a
government post and you know at that
mint con moody left quite a positive
legacy with respect to practical public
works and investments and dikes along
the Yellow River
as well as the construction of a canal
connecting the Great River with the
capital at chun-yan there were no major
floods for 80 years since hon Rudy
called for these improvements just as
the first emperor had the ultimate right
hand man in lys
so did hon wu d in dong dong shoe dome
was the most instrumental in promoting
Confucianism in the government he was a
great scholar and was quite influential
in promoting officials based on their
Confucian virtues
hammoudi went down in history among
other things as the martial emperor I
suppose his exhausting wars are what
most defines hon wu t in fact the
character rule in his name means martial
or military and d of course means
Emperor so Han rule D the martial
emperor that name certainly defined him
you know a lot of these names of these
Emperor's are posthumous names they're
given to the Emperor after he dies and
that name would be carefully decided and
that's how the emperor would go down in
history not in all cases but most like
Han Liu D are all known by their
posthumous names so there were quite a
few Wars during his five decade reign as
Emperor
like I said China doubled in size under
hongwol D but at what price is still
debatable if there were two things he
could say that defined hon wu d would be
his wars and his expansion and
consolidation of power of the central
authority over the inhabited territories
now you've heard me mention the Xiang Yu
in a number of podcasts they were
turkic-speaking nomads from the north of
civilised China all the way west to Xin
Jiang and Central Asia the Xiong nu were
not to be taken lightly and I plan to
focus on them in a future podcast and
look at their history as it relates to
the Chinese now by the time of the Han
the rulers had figured out that if they
just paid tribute to the show-nu sent
them gobs of silk and precious objects
and gold and the occasional beautiful
princesses the show knew pretty much
kept the pillaging to a minimum this was
the system that developed over time
until after it was recognized it was
better to pay them off with tribute
rather than fight them hang moody he had
a better idea using
shock-and-awe tactics he would drive
them back so far to the west that they
would be too distant to do any damage to
the heartland of China 133 BC Hon Wu D
launches the wars against the shown node
to deal with this millennium old issue
once and for all
there were seven military campaigns over
the period of ten years some met with
failure most met with success if he was
able to push them back a few hundred
miles he would quickly settle the land
and occupy it with Chinese from the east
of the country the old Arab proverb the
enemy of my enemy is my friend really
would have meant something to Han woo
deep because he came up with this idea
to ally himself with the your people
enemies of the show knew who had
defeated them and dominated them the
usurer were Central Asian people hun
Rudy wrote a letter to the uture leader
promising to in essence take care of
them and put them under the Chinese
umbrella if they would just help them
defeat the Xiong nu
and the man he entrusted with this
letter was one of the great adventurers
of world history not just the history of
China
he was Chung chin and I'm not going to
spoil it here by getting into the
specifics of jongshin's amazing life for
sure we'll do a special episode just on
John Chen one day 138 BC Jung Qin
departs on his mission with a caravan of
a hundred men well in no time at all he
gets captured by the show-nu and
actually ends up living amongst them
marrying one of their women and have a
son but after nine years or so he
escaped and continued westward to finish
his mission he ended up finding the
uture and they said basically thanks but
no thanks as they had given up the
nomadic lifestyle and had settled into
towns that had become somewhat
prosperous so Chung Chen starts heading
back for Chang An to give the bad news
to the Emperor he was captured a second
time by the show-nu and was waylaid for
about a year before he escaped again and
arrived back in the capital show new
wife and son in tow in 126 BC some 12
years after he had first departed on
this mission the mission was a failure
and that Han woo
didn't get his alliance with the you
enter but jongchan brought back amazing
tales and accurate descriptions about
the lands way way out to the west and
all the trade that was carried out and
how much demand there was for Chinese
goods and how the whole trade thing
worked on this first trip he had made it
as far west as the Caspian Sea where
Persia and bactria were located edibles
such as grapes peaches and pomegranates
and many other strange foods not
available in China found their way to
the courts of the Emperor Han Moody was
the first Chinese later to face this
truly significant and utterly surprising
idea of these distant lands perhaps his
advanced and innovative as China
up until Chang chin came back to
chun-yan with the news it had been
thought in Han Dynasty China that theirs
was the only truly civilized place in
the whole world that existed and had a
writing system and organized government
with cities and towns how to handle this
initially the emphasis was on trade and
how to supply these distant markets and
also how to get these goods from the
West that had demand in China it
literally was a matter of whole new
worlds opening up and nobody was
invading anybody this was all just
peaceful trade at least for now silk was
all the rage and the roman empire and
during the Republic although Caesar
Augustus and Tiberius hardly knew their
counterparts in Chiang on the silk trade
between Rome and China was immense and
was mostly paid for in gold this
indirect silk trade between Rome and
China was the first link between East
and West and proved to be the
inspiration behind the founding and the
development of the Silk Road the
silkworm of course had been domesticated
during the Shang period and the quality
and fineness of Joe Dynasty silk is well
documented but it was by the time of the
hunt that the silk production reached
new heights and became such a worldwide
sensation like it did hang Moody's
generals had good luck in Western Korea
and were successful in conquering them
but in the opposite direction complete
victory over the shownu remained elusive
in 104 and 91 BC the Chinese came up
short in their battles with the shondo
nonetheless through an effective
combination of alliances sustained
military pressure and good old espionage
and intrigue the show-nu grew weakened
to the point where after Hongwu d they
were hardly the fierce foe they used to
be by 51 BC their collapse was complete
and never again were they to rise to be
the Menace that they had been for so
many centuries the areas of China that
had always been independent and separate
from any maps of the Chinese Empire also
fell to this Han central authority this
included the areas of present-day Fujian
in the southeast and Guangdong in the
south southern Europe or Nadia as the
region was called had been a kingdom
that had bowed to no one and had
remained fiercely independent from the
northern Emperor but after four massive
expeditions by 111 BC this last holdout
of China proper had been defeated after
almost a century of independence the
South was then under the Han Emperor's
control including Hainan Island and
northern Vietnam down to the Red River
these two provinces of China Fujian and
Guangdong have always been the trading
powerhouses of China when China's
economy recently opened up in 1979 these
two provinces were the first two to get
filthy rich why well besides having
special economic zones and their
provinces they were in the best spot
geographically the worldwide community
of Chinese if you took a census most
historically came from these two
provinces from their strategic position
on the South China Sea the Han rulers
were more efficiently able to carry out
trade with the kingdoms who thrived
during that period including India and
what are now the nations of Vietnam
Indonesia Malaysia and Thailand by
bringing these southern areas into the
China fold Han woo Dee was able to
control the trade policy and get in on
the action and fill the royal treasury
by 89 BC after 32 years of non-stop
military campaigns China had reached its
greatest Heights of expansion
the Treasury was utterly depleted
realizing his mistake Hanwoo D took
various measures to reduce the suffering
of the people whose lives had been
negatively affected by all the wars but
he died in 87 BC and although China's
size had more than doubled the question
was at what cost so the great Han woo D
dies and because he had executed his son
the Crown Prince for plotting against
him and some supernatural conspiracy
there was no error waiting in the wings
to allow for a peaceful transition so
that only left the alternative which was
a complicated transition he was
succeeded by his eight-year-old son who
reigned as child D Emperor ja now Han
will D sired him when he was already 62
and there were plenty of brothers who
came before him so it was one of those
times of conspiracies and trying to get
rid of this boy Emperor the boy emperor
ja well he died at the age of 21 and 74
BC without arranging for an hare this
led to the 27 day reign of changyi wonka
or Prince huh of Changi Hawk Wang who
served faithfully from huh Moody's reign
and into this troubled period served as
regent Hawk Wang and all the machination
zuv the whole family during this time
might be another good topic for a future
podcast this 27 day Emperor in short
wasn't any good and Hawk Wong in the
interests of the state arranged for him
to be deposed he was replaced by Chandi
Emperor shin he had three Emperor's now
Shenron and Cheung Shen was the grandson
of Han Liu D he reigned from 74 to 49 BC
a respectable 25 years you're in and
Cheung combined was another 41 years and
took us up to 7 BC this period gave the
Empire a breather from all the Wars of
Han Moody measures were taken to give
everyone a break and all kinds of
various ways governments do less taxes
less conscription etc but the Han had
peaked and by the time Jesus was born in
Bethlehem
han was decidedly going downhill thanks
to the Xiong nu being defamed by this
time and the prevailing reluctance to
get embroiled in any Foreign Wars or
disturbances things were rather quiet
during these final decades of the
Western Han and now Emperor Yin who I
just mentioned he had a concert named
Empress Wang Wang Chung Jun she had
incredible staying power she lived from
71 BC to 13 AD just shy of 85 years she
was incredibly powerful during the time
of her husband UNT when he was Emperor
and then when her son became Emperor her
two-step grandsons and her step
great-grandnephew Emperor Chung was her
son as I mentioned these last go say 10
decades of the Han were very messy with
endless battles for power within the
imperial court
now empress wang she had a half-brother
who had a son which made this boy her
nephew his name was Juan he naturally
worked in the government and thanks to
his aunt's connections he became Regent
for the nine-year old Emperor king who
reigned from 1 BC to 5 a D by this time
the Han rulers of the lil family were in
serious decline in the Wong's they were
on the ascension the Juan's led by juan
hmong they prevailed in the end despite
all the conspiracies and whatnot and
attempts to get rid of them yet one last
emperor of the western han and that
honor fell upon Emperor Liu Ying Ying
the kid he took us from 6 ad to 9 ad and
nothing much to say about him except
that he was basically a puppet of Wang
Mong and his claim to fame might be that
he was the one that wanna actually
deposed which spelled the end of the
Western Han Dynasty so 9 ad no more
Leo's now you have a new clan with
ultimate power the Wong's and Wan Mong
he declared an end to the Han Dynasty
and the beginning of the Shing and Sheen
means new and we're gonna pick up next
week with Wong Mong in his 14 year reign
as Emperor until he is himself deposed
violently and you have a restoration of
the Oakland again which ushered in the
eastern Han Dynasty so we're gonna stop
here and pick up next week with Wang mom
what else is there to say Wong Mong he
went down in history as the great
usurper he usurped the throne usurp of
course means to seize power without the
legal right to do so so please join us
next week won't you will examine the 14
year reign of Wong Mong and he of course
was the one and only emperor of the Qin
Dynasty
you know after he's killed in 23 ad the
Han returns as the eastern Han this time
unless til 220 ad and I'm telling you
until 581 ad it's a real roller coaster
in China but we'll just keep plodding
along like we've been doing since we
started this overview with you the great
tamer of the floods back in the shyness
tea so most of the show has been written
at che Montgomery and quaint and
quintessentially American Claremont
California but I'm recording this from
the 11th floor of the Hyatt Regency and
exciting Jim say je Kowloon in Hong Kong
it's 3:00 in the morning here or 12:00
noon back home if you want a copy Rolex
watch this is the place I'm here for the
next 10 days so don't hold me in too
much contempt I beg you if the next show
is a few days late so take care
everybody